---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/banner-grabbing/"}
---

Banners are service announcements provided by services in response to connection requests, and they often carry vendor version information. Banner grabbing is a simple method of fingerprinting that helps in detecting the vendor of a firewall and the firmware version. Knowing the exact version of the firmware or server can help create payloads that exploit known weaknesses without being detected by the IDS patterns. Banner grabbing identifies the services running on the system. The information obtained through banner grabbing includes details about the IDS or configurations of the target systems. This knowledge allows attackers to understand how an IDS is set up and tailor its actions to avoid known detection rules. Attackers can also use banner grabbing to discover the services running on firewalls. The three primary services that send out banners are FTP, Telnet, and web servers. A firewall does not block banner grabbing because the connection between the attacker’s system and the target system appears legitimate. An example of SMTP banner grabbing is telnet mail.targetcompany.org 25. The syntax is “\<service name > \<service running > \<port number>”

Banner grabbing is used for specifying banners and application information. For example, when the user opens a telnet connection to a known port on the target server and presses Enter a few times, if required, it displays the following result:

Figure 12.23: Screenshot showing Telnet error message
This system works with many other common applications that respond to a set port. The information generated through banner grabbing can boost the attacker’s efforts to further compromise the system. With information about the version and the vendor of the web server, the attacker can further focus on employing platform-specific exploit techniques. Services on ports such as FTP, Telnet, and web servers should not remain open, as they are vulnerable to banner grabbing.
