---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/do-s-countermeasure-strategies/"}
---


- **Absorbing the Attack**: In this strategy, additional capacity is used to absorb an attack, **which requires preplanning**. It also requires additional resources. One disadvantage associated with this strategy is the cost of additional resources, which is incurred even when no attacks are underway.
- **Degrading Services**: If it is not possible to keep all services functioning during an attack, it is a good idea to keep at least the critical services functional. For this, the critical services are first identified, following which the network, systems, and application designs are customized to cut down the noncritical services. This strategy may help keep the critical services functional.
- **Shutting Down Services**: In this strategy, all services are shut down until an attack has subsided. Though it may not be the ideal choice, it may be a reasonable response in some cases.
- **Egress Filtering**: Egress filtering scans the headers of **IP packets leaving a network**. If the packets meet specifications, they can be routed out of the sub-network from which they originated. On the other hand, the packets do not reach the targeted address if they fail to meet the necessary specifications. Egress filtering ensures that unauthorized or malicious traffic never leaves the internal network. DDoS attacks generate spoofed IP addresses. Establishing protocols to require any legitimate packet that leaves a company’s network to have a source address in which the network portion matches the internal network can help mitigate attacks. A properly developed firewall for the sub-network can filter out many DDoS packets with spoofed IP source addresses. If a web server is vulnerable to a zero-day attack known only to the underground hacker community, a server can be vulnerable even after applying all available patches. However, if the user enables egress filtering, they can save the integrity of a system by keeping the server from establishing a connection back to the attacker. This would also limit the effectiveness of many payloads used in common exploits. Outbound exposure can be restricted to the required traffic, thereby limiting the attacker’s ability to connect to other systems and gain access to tools that can enable further access into the network.
- **Ingress Filtering**: Ingress filtering is a packet filtering technique used by many Internet Service Providers (ISPs) to prevent the source address spoofing of Internet traffic. Thus, ingress filtering can indirectly combat several types of net abuse by making Internet traffic traceable to its true source. It protects against flooding attacks that originate from valid prefixes (IP addresses) and enables the originator to be traced to its true source.
- **TCP Intercept**: TCP intercept is a traffic-filtering feature in routers to protect TCP servers from a [[TCP SYN-flooding attack\|TCP SYN-flooding attack]], which is a kind of DoS attack. In a SYN-flooding attack, the attacker sends a huge volume of requests to connect with unreachable return addresses. As the addresses are not reachable, the connections cannot be established and remain unresolved. This huge volume of unresolved open connections overwhelms the server and may cause it to deny service even to valid requests. Consequently, legitimate users may not be able to connect to a website, access email, use an FTP service, and so on. In the TCP intercept mode, a router intercepts the SYN packets sent by clients to a server and matches them with an extended access list. If a match is obtained, then on behalf of the destination server, the intercept software establishes a connection with the client. Similarly, the intercept software also establishes a connection with the destination server on behalf of the client. Once the two half connections are established, the intercept software combines them transparently. Thus, the TCP intercept software prevents fake connection attempts from reaching the server by acting as a mediator between the server and client throughout the connection.
- **Rate Limiting**: Rate limiting is a technique used to control the rate of outbound or inbound traffic of a network interface controller. This technique effectively reduces the high volume of inbound traffic that causes a DDoS attack. It is especially important to employ this technique in hardware appliances, in which the technique is configured to limit the rate of requests on layers 4 and 5 of the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model.

## Deflecting Attacks

- [[Honeynet\|Honeynet]]
- [[Honeypot\|Honeypot]]
