---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/hping3/"}
---

- [Debian / hping3 · GitLab](https://salsa.debian.org/debian/hping3)
- [Let's Learn some useful HPING3 commands or syntax that are very useful for scanning and general…](https://kushalpokhrel.medium.com/lets-learn-some-useful-hping3-commands-or-syntax-that-are-very-useful-for-scanning-and-general-a557c467ec5)
- [[hping3 - Flags\|hping3 - Flags]]
- send (almost) arbitrary [[net/protocols/Transmission Control Protocol\|TCP]]/[[IP Address\|IP]] packets to network hosts

It performs network security auditing, [[Firewall\|Firewall]] testing, manual path [[Maximum transmission unit\|MTU]] discovery, advanced [[Traceroute\|Traceroute]], remote [[Operating System\|OS]] fingerprinting, remote uptime guessing, [[net/protocols/Transmission Control Protocol\|TCP]]/IP stacks auditing, and other functions. It can send custom TCP/IP packets and display target replies similarly to a ping program with ICMP replies. It handles **fragmentation** as well as arbitrary packet body and size, and it can be used to transfer encapsulated files under the supported protocols. It also supports idle host scanning. IP spoofing and network/host scanning can be used to perform an anonymous probe for services. Hping3 also has a Traceroute mode, which enables attackers to send files between covert channels. It also determines whether the host is up even when the host blocks ICMP packets. Its firewalk-like usage allows the discovery of open ports behind firewalls. It performs manual path MTU discovery and enables attackers to perform remote OS fingerprinting.


## [[Ping\|ICMP]] Scan

```bash
hping3 -1 10.0.0.25
```


## [[net/protocols/Transmission Control Protocol\|TCP]] SYN Scan

```bash
hping3 -8 50-60 –S 10.0.0.25 –V
```

## [[TCP - Termination\|FIN]], PUSH, URG Scan

- [[Xmas Scan\|Xmas Scan]]
```bash
hping3 –F –P –U 10.0.0.25 –p 80
```

## [[UDP\|UDP]] Scan

```
hping3 -2 10.0.0.25 –p 80 
```

## ACK Scan


```
sudo hping3 --ack -p 80 10.10.1.11
```

## [[Traceroute\|Traceroute]]

```bash
hping3 --traceroute -V -S bcc-ca.gov.bd -p 443
```
## [[Port\|Port]] Scan

```bash
hping3 -8 1-1000 -S 192.168.60.130 -V
```

## Network scan

```bash
hping3 -1 10.0.1.x --rand-dest –I eth0
```

## Intercept all traffic

```bash
hping3 -9 HTTP –I eth0
```

## [[net/protocols/Transmission Control Protocol\|TCP]] Timestamping 

Many firewalls drop those TCP packets that **do not have the TCP Timestamp option set**. By adding the --tcp-timestamp argument in the command line, you can enable the TCP timestamp option in Hping and try to guess the timestamp update frequency and uptime of the target host (72.14.207.99).


```bash
hping3 -S 72.14.207.99 -p 80 --tcp-timestamp
```


## Collect sequence number

Using the argument -Q in the command line, Hping collects all the TCP sequence numbers generated by the target host (192.168.1.103). 
```bash
ping3 192.168.1.103 -Q -p 139
```


---

```
hping3 -A 192.168.60.130 -p 80 -c 5
```

